apps/www/content/docs/components/alert-dialog.mdx, before:

---
title: Alert Dialog
description: A modal dialog that interrupts the user with important content and expects a response.
featured: true
component: true
links:
  doc: https://www.radix-ui.com/docs/primitives/components/alert-dialog
  api: https://www.radix-ui.com/docs/primitives/components/alert-dialog#api-reference
---

<ComponentPreview
  name="alert-dialog-demo"
  description="An alert dialog with cancel and continue buttons."
/>

## Installation

<Tabs defaultValue="cli">

<TabsList>
  <TabsTrigger value="cli">CLI</TabsTrigger>
  <TabsTrigger value="manual">Manual</TabsTrigger>
</TabsList>
<TabsContent value="cli">

```bash
npx shadcn-ui@latest add alert-dialog
```

</TabsContent>

<TabsContent value="manual">

<Steps>

<Step>Install the following dependencies:</Step>

```bash
npm install @radix-ui/react-alert-dialog
```

<Step>Copy and paste the following code into your project.</Step>

<ComponentSource name="alert-dialog" />

<Step>Update the import paths to match your project setup.</Step>

</Steps>

</TabsContent>

</Tabs>

## Usage

```tsx
import {
  AlertDialog,
  AlertDialogAction,
  AlertDialogCancel,
  AlertDialogContent,
  AlertDialogDescription,
  AlertDialogFooter,
  AlertDialogHeader,
  AlertDialogTitle,
  AlertDialogTrigger,
} from "@/components/ui/alert-dialog"
```

```tsx
<AlertDialog>
  <AlertDialogTrigger>Open</AlertDialogTrigger>
  <AlertDialogContent>
    <AlertDialogHeader>
      <AlertDialogTitle>Are you absolutely sure?</AlertDialogTitle>
      <AlertDialogDescription>
        This action cannot be undone. This will permanently delete your account
        and remove your data from our servers.
      </AlertDialogDescription>
    </AlertDialogHeader>
    <AlertDialogFooter>
      <AlertDialogCancel>Cancel</AlertDialogCancel>
      <AlertDialogAction>Continue</AlertDialogAction>
    </AlertDialogFooter>
  </AlertDialogContent>
</AlertDialog>
```

Commit message:

fix(www): combobox examples error (#4503)
* bug-fix: added command-list component to eliminate error

Wrap CommandEmpty and CommandGroup inside CommandList
liminated Error: TypeError: undefined is not iterable (cannot read property Symbol(Symbol.iterator))

* fix(www): command examples

---------

Co-authored-by: shadcn <m@shadcn.com>

fix: Playground example model selector working (#4507)

Issue:
The ModelItem component's onPeek handler was sometimes logging incorrect data, causing the model selector to appear inconsistent.

Changes Made:
Verified that the aria-selected attribute is true before calling onPeek(model), ensuring the function is only called when the element is actually selected.

Fixed Model Selector Inconsistency in Playground Example

fixes #4506

Open in v0 (#4613)

* feat: edit in v0

* feat: update edit sources

* fix: edit button

* feat: rename to open in v0

Update breadcrumb demo and global styles

modify dropdown component

All changes to the dropdown component

s

ll changes to the dropdown component, including component content, page link buttons, and the full content of Storybook

modify all

all all

apps/www/content/docs/components/alert-dialog.mdx, after:

---
title: Alert Dialog
description: A modal dialog that interrupts the user with important content and expects a response.
featured: true
component: true
links:
  doc: https://www.radix-ui.com/docs/primitives/components/alert-dialog
  api: https://www.radix-ui.com/docs/primitives/components/alert-dialog#api-reference
---

<ComponentPreview
  name="alert-dialog-demo"
  title="An alert dialog with cancel and continue buttons."
  description="An alert dialog with cancel and continue buttons."
/>

## Installation

<Tabs defaultValue="cli">

<TabsList>
  <TabsTrigger value="cli">CLI</TabsTrigger>
  <TabsTrigger value="manual">Manual</TabsTrigger>
</TabsList>
<TabsContent value="cli">

```bash
npx shadcn-ui@latest add alert-dialog
```

</TabsContent>

<TabsContent value="manual">

<Steps>

<Step>Install the following dependencies:</Step>

```bash
npm install @radix-ui/react-alert-dialog
```

<Step>Copy and paste the following code into your project.</Step>

<ComponentSource name="alert-dialog" />

<Step>Update the import paths to match your project setup.</Step>

</Steps>

</TabsContent>

</Tabs>

## Usage

```tsx
import {
  AlertDialog,
  AlertDialogAction,
  AlertDialogCancel,
  AlertDialogContent,
  AlertDialogDescription,
  AlertDialogFooter,
  AlertDialogHeader,
  AlertDialogTitle,
  AlertDialogTrigger,
} from "@/components/ui/alert-dialog"
```

```tsx
<AlertDialog>
  <AlertDialogTrigger>Open</AlertDialogTrigger>
  <AlertDialogContent>
    <AlertDialogHeader>
      <AlertDialogTitle>Are you absolutely sure?</AlertDialogTitle>
      <AlertDialogDescription>
        This action cannot be undone. This will permanently delete your account
        and remove your data from our servers.
      </AlertDialogDescription>
    </AlertDialogHeader>
    <AlertDialogFooter>
      <AlertDialogCancel>Cancel</AlertDialogCancel>
      <AlertDialogAction>Continue</AlertDialogAction>
    </AlertDialogFooter>
  </AlertDialogContent>
</AlertDialog>
```
